# File Structure

Standard: **Build an Angular CRUD application against an HTTP API (<a href="#">W0045</a>)**

## Objectives

By the end of this lesson you will:

- Group files by their domain concept, not by their functional type
- Name files according to the Angular Styleguide

## Rationale

Two main principles drive this lesson, and they are both human reasons.

1. You write code once, but other developers (and your future self) _read_ code dozens of times.  Making your code easy to find is key to being productive
1. Developers tend to work on _features_, not _layers_.  For example, you'll work with the Ordering system, not all controllers

## Group folders by Business Domain (not functional type)

Recall that in an Angular application you'll have several different _types_ of things, such as Modules, Controllers, Components, Templates (and eventually many more).

You might be tempted to structure your application like so:

```
├── app
   ├── components
   ├── modules
   └── templates
```

And while this _seems_ reasonable, think of this another way.  Would you ever organize your app into folders named "functions" or "numbers" or "strings"?  Of course not!  So why do people organize their applications into functional groups?

If you've worked in Rails or apps generated by the Express Generator you've probably seen such functional groupings.

When you organize folders like that, you need to have files open from multiple different folders at the same time.  This becomes extremely cumbersome as your app grows to hundreds or thousands of files.

Instead, you should organize your folders based on the _business domain_.

Let's say you have an application like Netflix.  It has a few key features:

- Users can see plans, register and pay
- Users can sign in
- Users can retrieve their passwords
- Users can browse movies
- Users can search movies
- Users can see movie details

You might organize your folders like this:

```
├── app
   ├── auth
   ├── movies
   └── registration
```

This is part of the [LIFT principle](https://github.com/johnpapa/angular-styleguide/tree/master/a1#application-structure-lift-principle).

## Name files for what they contain

Keep files small, and name them for what the contain.  For example:

```
├── registration
   ├── plans.component.js
   ├── plans.service.js
   └── plans.template.html
```

## Keep folders flat

Don't nest too much.  Nobody likes clicking triangles in the file tree or tabbing through folders at the Terminal 😒
